# discrete-cosine-transform
Hardware implementation of the 16 point Discrete Cosine Transform (DCT) in Verilog HDL, including regular and scaled DCT architectures.

The Discrete Cosine Transform (DCT) is a mathematical technique that converts finite data points (like image pixels or audio samples) from the spatial/time domain into a sum of cosine functions oscillating at different frequencies. It is essential for lossy data compression in JPEG, MPEG, and AAC, as it packs most signal information into a few low-frequency coefficients.

## 📂 Project Structure

A comprehensive guide to the files and directories in this repository. Click on any name to navigate directly to it.

### 📁 Root Directory

*   [**`📁 ./dct`**](./src) — explaination of Discrete Cosine Transform.
*   [**`📁 ./coeff`**](./coeff) — python code to generate coefficients.
*   [**`📁 ./src`**](./docs) — RTL design of dct(fully synthesizable).
*   [**`📁 ./tests`**](./tests) — test bench.
*   [**`📁 ./verification`**](./verification) — matlab code of dct.
*   [**`📄 README.md`**](./README.md) — Project overview (this file).

## detailed guide How to use
1. Regular DCT archietecture

open python\
copy the code OR open the files(regular_coeff.py)\
*(this will generate a file **regular_coeff.mem**)*\
Open vivado create new project\
create new file(design source) and copy the code from **dct_regular.v** OR open file **dct_regular.v**
create new file(simulation source) and copy the code from **test.v** OR open file **test.v**
add new design source and open file **coeff_rom.mem** generated by python code
